# Automated Light Intensity Control Circuit
Automated Light Intensity Control Circuit project paper simulated using Proteus via virtual Arduino Uno module and LDR

Abstract

Over the course of years, the energy crisis has resulted into a global catastrophe which the whole world must confront. The consumption of power at home makes up the greatest energy usage/consumption in the current world of crisis. According to various usage sources, the power consumption of lights in a typical home setup is a factor which cannot be ignored at all costs. The user typically requires different light intensities in according to different places during situations. The light intensity from outside environment is adequate and sufficient, and thus does not require the need to turn on any light. Due to certain situations the user leaves and forgets to turn off the lights. These factors cause energy wastage at large components. Thus we requirement of power management/scheduling of light control in a home has become a necessity in order to save high amounts of energy. Lights are controlled usually by an on/off electrical switches. Of course, an individual can switch a light on or off by remotely connecting a device to a Personal computer, but there has to be a requirement of at least a PC, consuming a very large amount of power consumption during the course of a day, for the control mechanism. Moreover, this practice causes inconvenience and comes at a very high cost for the individual. In most designs one must install very hardware specific to particular design and software design to perform controlling of lights, resulting in exponential costs. Furthermore this type of system cannot detect the room light intensity of the installed room-space and also this system is prone to external factors such as rains.
